											File Handling
											
	In Java, with the help of file class, we can work with files.
	This file class is inside the java i.o package.
	The file class can be used by creating an object of the class and then specifying the name of the file.
	In simple words, file handling means reading and writing data to a file.
	Java Handling files using Streams.
	
Data Streams
	The Stream is a sequence of data. It could be a sequence of input, output, or error streams.
	In Java, Streams are automatically created for us. All these streams are attached to the console.
	
	System.out -> Output Stream is used to write a file.
	System.in ->  Input Stream is used to read a file.
	System.err -> Error Stream is used to handle or show the error.
	
	
Creating File on Disk
	For creating file on disk, you must select a perfect path.
	This can be done by importing the file library.
	It also deals with the exceptions thrown after file creation.
	
Creating File on Floder
	For creating a file on floder used this type of path on a windows machine that starts with (/ or \\), the
	path will be interpreted as relative to the current project.
	
Creating a directory in Java
	In this, we will create a directory with the help of mkdir() method.
	For creating a subfloder inside the directory, we use mkdirs() method instead of mkdir().
	
Writing Data into Files
	The file writing includes the use of Buffered Writer and file writer in order to write any statement into the file.
	To write the content into the file we must use "Buffered writer". 
	This is used to write single arrays, characters, and Strings.
	Filewriter is also a convenient class for writing text files using the default character encoding of the operating system.
	
Reading Files 
	This deals with reading the statements from the file. It also follows the same procedure and the import of the some
	libraries to read the files we use file Reader and the Buffer Reader.
	Buffered Reader is a class in java that is used to read the text of a character based input stream.
	It can be used to read data line by line using the readLine() method.
	
Reading Files with Scanner
	In Java we can read files with the help of the scanner class also by using some functions like the hasNext() method.
	
File Deletion
	This is done by a simple command of file.delete() method.
	The java File delete() method can be used to delete files, it will return a boolean value.
	It returns true if the file is deleted, false if failed.

Serialization of Objects
	Serialization of objects is the conversion of a java object into a static stream(sequence) of bytes which can then be saved to a databases or
	transfered over a network.
	Serializable is a marker interface, it does not declare any method and tells the serialization mechanism
	that the class can be serialized.
	
